surveyed arrested in Thailand Natalia
Montero for illegal possession of
protected animals yes Nacho according to the
Thai police had nine otters and a
python without a license It all started with an
email from an
anonymous person in it he said that there was a
foreigner who had protected animals
without any documentation they
raided Fran's sanctuary and there they
arrested him this Friday he testified
alongside his lawyer for 3 hours it is
expected that tomorrow he will be transferred to
court where the judge will decide if he is released on
bail this happens a
day after Fran said that he might
leave Thailand due to
legal problems that could lead
to jail
Nacho Javier oliveira journalist and friend
of Fran cuesta How are you Good afternoon
Nacho delighted to be here with you
Thank you Javier Hey how are you
cuesta is he is in a
complicated situation the prisons in Thailand are not
the hotels we have here and there is
the family bringing him clothes when they
can food and so on without shoes
sleeping on the floor anyway the
situation is not pleasant but I do not
fully understand He does not have
a sanctuary where he collects animals
takes care of them and then brings them back  put in in in
the fauna in their
normal wildlife let's see the word sanctuary what it
indicates is that they are animals that
can no longer be rehabilitated to the
wild, that is why it is called a sanctuary
then there is the refuge where
animals stay temporarily and then they are
rehabilitated V okay And who
reports him, man, well we suspect yes
Allow me to be a little cautious and do not
give names, not to point the finger at anyone but it is
quite evident that someone from the
environment because last week the
same sources that brought to light here
in Spain Sorry, I hear myself a
bit concho that's why I'm talking
okay We
will fix it for you the same the same accounts
on Twitter that brought to light
last week some
personal issues in Fran's life have been the ones that came
to light that he was being
reported So it is more than evident
that it is someone from the environment but you
want to say that there is a plot against
Fran costs eh I personally believe that
yes personal opinion I believe that yes there is
someone that does not end very well
with him and who wants to annoy him and that
is the one who filed this complaint I want to
leave a  thing Clara Nacho Taking advantage of
your space and the fact is that this man is not a
criminal, this man collects animals
that are having a bad life, that
are in a situation of trafficking, eh,
to give is a better life and then there is
also talk that they are
asking for 5 years and this 5 years
has nothing to do with this complaint,
this, this complaint is a new complaint
that has nothing to do with the three
complaints that were
previously announced by his wife,
the 5 years would be in the worst
case scenario of the other three complaints V
Wait, wait, let's go in order, Javier, in
this case, what could be the sentence for
having protected animals, so
far I don't have that information, Nacho,
for now, what the children are
trying to do is get him out in the next few
hours with a bail. Forgive me, in Spain,
for having protected animals, one does not go
to provisional prison. There in Thailand,
yes, eh, of
course, there, there in Thailand,
justice is very different. We have been
dealing with the Daniel Sancho case
lately and we have been able to verify it.
No, no, but [ __ ], one thing is to murder and
dismember and another is to have little
animals. So  yes but look here in
Spain you call you send an email to
the police and you say my neighbor has
a capí and the police don't even accept the
email if you file a complaint they will accept it
or they won't
but there we have seen that they file a
complaint they send an email and
30 police officers show up at their house here we disagree
Javier yes if you send an email to the
police saying that they have
dangerous animals protected animals at home
the police or the civil guard goes he is
prone they go there are specific units but
but beyond discussing that which is one that
is residual what
worries me is that he is in
provisional prison for having
protected animals at home it seems to me an
excessively harsh measure also Nacho it must be
added that it is not a sanctuary that is
underground that is in a warehouse
hidden and that it is a place that is not
known there in the town where he has the
sanctuary which is 100 hectares everyone
knows what Fran does
everyone knows it plus we are talking
about a person who uploads viral videos daily
a lot of  influencers
to the sanctuary also recently your Bay
use or rather all the species that are in
the sanctuary do not hide if you are
doing something illegal or that you believe that you do
not have the license you would be
hiding Okay
eem have you managed to speak with someone who has
been with Fran if he is
encouraged or not If he hopes to be released soon
or not I was talking to him
Until they took his phone and he
he was calm because he is
completely convinced that he has not
done anything illegal at least in this
aspect and yes I am in contact with the
children and so far what they are doing is
trying to get them out with the bail in the
next few hours in theory today During the
next few hours there should be some
update Javier Thank you very much
A pleasure to you for giving us a lot